In this video, you will learn to;
describe the purpose or use
of cryptography in cybersecurity,
describe how cryptography
is used to assure
the key cybersecurity tenants
of confidentiality,
integrity, authentication,
and non-repudiation.
One key concept of
security cryptography
we'll discuss this now.
Cryptography it's basically
a way of secret writing.
Its a secure communication
between two parties,
and only the intended recipient
can understand
this communication.
That is the key task
of cryptography.
One thing that we need
to understand for
cryptography is that there's data
at motion and data at rest,
and both of them
need to be secure.
Cryptography is nothing new
it has been used for
thousands of years.
Examples are
Egyptian Hieroglyphics,
the Spartan Scytale,
Ceasar Cipher,
those are just a few examples
of the ancient cryptography.
Nowadays is just more evolved.
We have encrypting data,
and with the rise of computers,
cryptography has
evolved over the years.
To understand better cryptography
and why it is important,
we need to discuss
some key concepts.
We'll start with confidentiality.
Basically, confidentiality
is the process of assuring that
only the intended parties
can read and understand
the message.
Integrity is
the process of actually
detecting if the message
has been changed,
where the message
shouldn't be altered in
any way in the process
of being transmitted.
Authentication it's
the process of
identifying are authenticated
with someone or
something it's actually
not allowed to do
something or some message
is actually correct.
Non-repudiation is the process of
detecting if something or
someone has done something,
and that someone one cannot deny
that action or that message
which was sent by him or her.
Cryptonalysis is
basically the process of
analyzing ciphers in
cryptographic algorithms.
Cryptonalysis is
a key factor to cryptography
because it allows scientists and
mathematicians to
actually determine
if a cryptographic algorithm
is secure or not.
Cipher is the actual algorithm
that encrypts a message.
For example, the Caesar Cipher
was an engineers' cryptography
algorithm that basically
shifted the alphabet or shifted
specific letters either to
the right to the left
in amount of kinds.
Plaintext like the word
says it's just plain text
can be human readable.
The Ciphertext
basically refers to
the plaintext gone
through the cipher,
which is basically,
the cipher has been
applied to a plaintext and
the ciphertext is something
that it's not humanly readable.
Encryption is the process of
transforming plaintext
into ciphertext.
Decryption is the process of
transforming the ciphertext
into a plaintext using
the cipher as well on
those two key concept.
Let's talk about cryptographic
strength a little bit now.
Cryptographic strength
relies on math not secrecy.
Keeping something
secret does not make
a cryptographic algorithm
anymore secure.
Actually, the most secure
algorithms out
there they have stood
the test of time are
public algorithms.
Modern ciphers use modular math.
On the left side of the screen,
you will see some
exclusive XOR table.
You will see column A, B
and the column A XOR B.
So trying to explain
this would be better.
Column A will be the plaintext,
column B will be
the key that we'll use to
encrypt the information,
and column C will be
the resulting ciphertext.
If you did the other way around,
you'll have the column A XOR B,
meaning you have the ciphertext,
and you run that on
another XOR based on column B,
which will be the key,
you will end up having
column A will choose plan
through the plaintext.
Now let's talk little bit
about two type of ciphers.
There is stream cipher and
there's the block cipher.
Stream cipher encrypt or
decrypt the information
bit per bit,
meaning one bit at a time
on a stream manner.
Block ciphers they encrypt
or decrypt information
differently.
They actually use blocks
of bits or bits to
encrypt information.
Some algorithms use 64 bits
of information to
encrypt at a time.
So block cipher will encrypt
the message 64 bits at a time.